[Music]
all right let's talk about one of
samsung's new a series phones this one
in particular
i think will be their best seller this
is the a52 5g and i think it just boils
down to
the best value this has a strangely
attractive price point for the
feature set that you get with it and
yeah let's dig in so
this lineup like the a series phones
normally they
cut corners just to make it fit into the
whole category of
samsung galaxy smartphones properly but
this year
it just it's weirdly well equipped and
well featured okay so this thing starts
at
four or five hundred dollars us it's got
120 hertz display
ip certified water resistance got a
headphone jack dual speakers
micro sd card slot a very solid camera
system
and four years of security updates
promised from samsung
and because it's a samsung galaxy a
series phone
this is going to see some really
aggressive carrier discounts in terms of
its pricing so
there's a lot going on that's great on
this phone
so the design of it is pretty simple
right this is a
black colored phone obviously it comes
in various colors but
they all look pretty plain and this is a
plastic phone plastic backed
plastic frame but they own the plastic
material right they don't try to pretend
like it's glastic or they don't try to
pretend like it's metal it's just
plain plastic but it feels durable i
will say though if you're looking for
imperfections in the build
some of the seams are a little rough
where some of the plastic components
meet up
but otherwise great looking phone great
built phone
and i'm assuming solid durability just
feels
tanky all round now the display up front
i like a lot so this is a flat edge
display
unlike a lot of the premium samsung
phones that have curved edges
it's six and a half inches 1080p super
amoled display
and 120 hertz so very fast and fluid if
you're scrolling through stuff
it's also 800 nits and i think for a lot
of people looking at that number
at that brightness measurement it
doesn't seem particularly bright right
because there are displays out there
they're like 1200 even 1500 nits
and beyond but it doesn't scale linearly
it's a logarithmic thing right so when
you go from let's say 500 nits
to a thousand nits it's not actually
double the perceived brightness
it's double the knit count but you have
to go probably like
4x to be able to get double the
brightness all sweaty stuff but
the point i'm trying to make is that an
800 screen even though it doesn't
seem super bright on paper is very
bright like 800 nits is
more than enough for most people this
isn't even at full brightness this is
like
i don't know three quarters
that's full brightness it's a bright
screen the bezels are
reasonably thin the top one's a little
bit thicker and the bottom bezel even
more so but overall i think the bezels
look clean
there is that silver ring on the
front-facing camera that samsung loves
to do on their
more inexpensive phones i think they do
it on purpose right so that that
front-facing camera is more obvious and
more visually distracting in their less
expensive phones
but i don't care enough at this price
point now the display is supposedly 120
hertz that is dynamically refreshed so
instead of just maintaining a high
refresh rate all the time when it's
capable of it and it's able to lower the
clock speed it'll down clock it to
preserve battery life
it's not mentioned though in the
software and stuff looks good on the
screen if you're playing games watching
movies or just browsing the web
it's bright colorful can't complain with
this screen
now there are stereo speakers but the
left one or like
the top one left one if you're holding
it in landscape orientation
it's noticeably less quiet than the
bottom firing speaker
there's also a sim card tray at the top
with a micro sd
which is a huge win but the biggest win
of all
headphone jack that's the good stuff
right and because it's a samsung phone
you get one ui and you have
a bunch of samsung apps pre-installed
some of those are useful most of it i
find
superfluous and i just remove as much as
i can the face unlock
is fast the fingerprint sensor isn't as
fast but it is available for the people
that prefer it
but the overall performance on the
device is really good it's running a
snapdragon 750 g
and you would expect it to be quick and
it is but the thing that surprised me
was gaming performance even stuff like
genting impact is
very playable on this device i will say
though that there are some slowdowns not
just in games but
occasionally you'll see some stuttering
in the ui and i don't know if it's
because i'm looking for it and i'm
trying to compare it to like a
snapdragon
8 and i'm trying to see the differences
i think though that most people that are
purchasing this
and spending real money on it and using
it as a regular phone
not only will you not be bothered by the
occasional stutter but
i don't think you'll even notice it now
in terms of battery life this has a 4
500 milliamp
hour battery it's not particularly big
or small it's kind of
to be expected for a samsung phone of
this size and i'm getting a screen on
time of
seven and a half hours and this is at
120 hertz dynamically refreshed but this
is with the
smooth screen option there is also a 15
watt charger in the box but there is no
support
for wireless charging unfortunately okay
let's talk about the camera system
because this
is it's an important part of this device
so this camera system has a main camera
with optical image stabilization and
there's also
an ultra wide but there is no optical
zoom it's
a purely digital zoom if you want to do
it but we'll get into that in a second
it's actually
better than you'd expect and there's
also a 5 megapixel
macro now the presence of this ois on
the main camera
is awesome it helps a ton especially for
tough shots like low light photos and
shots where your hands weren't perfectly
steady
look at the dark area inside the hut the
a525g is doing some pretty aggressive
processing
it's a tough shot though right it's
bright outside and quite dark
inside the hut but the camera's still
able to do a good job
the ultra wide isn't as good at it
though it still tries but the details
tend to get super grainy in the process
and i'd say in general the ultra wide
lens struggles with the tougher shots
now in good lighting the images look
clean proper coloring nothing too
saturated
if anything i feel like some of the
warmer tones could be
a little more amped up which is kind of
surprising coming from samsung phone
but overall i think the camera system is
really good but the zoom is what
surprised me the most i'd say so this
does not have any kind of
optical zoom capabilities but it's all
digital but even at 10x the images look
reasonably clean
so i think they did a great job on the
camera system i think for people that
are
concerned that at this price point
samsung skimped on the camera
because that's a very reasonable
suspicion
i don't think they did i think that this
year they have packed a very
well-rounded camera system on the a52 5g
now my favorite thing about this phone
has nothing to do with
any of the hardware it really is that
four-year
security update guarantee from the
company and that's not common like if
you look at chinese branded phones that
can deliver hardware like this for
even less money they don't give you
three years of
feature support and four years of
security support
this is special and i appreciate it but
it's right obviously not everyone cares
about it but
i think for a phone that you're trying
to hold on to for four or five years
sometimes
that software support is very valuable
over time right okay um
great phone the one biggest weakness i
would say it has and this is
i would say a minor thing but in case
you care the haptics on it
are very weak the motor feels
insignificant and it seems to stem from
like
the top or middle of the phone it's not
a great haptic
feedback but otherwise
fantastic phone if you ask me okay hope
you guys enjoyed this video thumbs if
you liked it subs if you loved it
see you guys next time